README.md, before:

# @tokligence/gateway

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@tokligence%2Fgateway.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tokligence/gateway)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Sync Release](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/actions/workflows/sync-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/actions/workflows/sync-release.yml)

**NPM installation for [Tokligence Gateway](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway)** - The first open-source AI gateway with two-way token trading.

> **TL;DR**: Tokligence Gateway is a high-performance LLM gateway that provides unified access to multiple LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google AI) with full bidirectional protocol translation. This NPM package automatically downloads and manages the native Go binaries for your platform.

## What is Tokligence Gateway?

Tokligence Gateway is a **platform-independent LLM gateway** that provides **dual native API support** - both OpenAI and Anthropic protocols - with full bidirectional translation. Unlike simple proxies, it offers:

### Core Capabilities

- **🔄 Bidirectional Protocol Translation**: OpenAI ↔ Anthropic with zero adapter overhead
  - Use Claude models with OpenAI SDK (Codex CLI, LangChain)
  - Use GPT models with Anthropic SDK (Claude Code)

- **🤖 Multiple LLM Providers**: Unified interface for:
  - OpenAI (GPT-4, GPT-3.5)
  - Anthropic (Claude Sonnet 4.5, Opus, Haiku)
  - Google AI (Gemini 2.5)
  - Custom OpenAI-compatible endpoints

- **💰 Token Trading Marketplace** (upcoming):
  - Buy tokens to meet AI needs
  - Sell unused LLM token capacity
  - Democratized AI infrastructure

- **📊 Built-in Token Ledger**: Track usage, audit trails, cost optimization

- **🛡️ Production Ready**: Rate limiting, logging, monitoring, failover

### Why Choose Tokligence Gateway?

| Feature | Tokligence Gateway | LiteLLM | OpenRouter | Cloudflare AI Gateway |
|---------|-------------------|---------|------------|----------------------|
| **Bidirectional Translation** | OpenAI ↔ Anthropic | OpenAI-style only | OpenAI-style only | OpenAI-style only |
| **Native Protocols** | Dual native APIs | Single proxy | Single endpoint | Normalizes to OpenAI |
| **Client Compatibility** | OpenAI SDK + Anthropic SDK | OpenAI SDK | OpenAI SDK | OpenAI SDK |
| **Token Marketplace** | ✅ Two-way trading | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Deployment** | Self-hosted (Docker, npm, pip, binary) | Self-hosted Python | Managed SaaS | Cloudflare platform |
| **Performance** | Go binary, low overhead | Python runtime | Network hop | Edge optimized |
| **Open Source** | Apache-2.0 | MIT | Closed | Closed |

## Installation

### Global Installation (Recommended)

Install the CLI globally for easy access:

```bash
npm install -g @tokligence/gateway
```

After installation, you can use the `tokligence` command (or `tgw` as a shorthand):

```bash
tgw --version
```

### Local Installation

Install as a project dependency:

```bash
npm install @tokligence/gateway
# or
yarn add @tokligence/gateway
# or
pnpm add @tokligence/gateway
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Configuration

```bash
tgw init
```

This creates `~/.tokligence/config/settings.ini` with default configuration.

### 2. Configure API Keys

Set your LLM provider API keys:

```bash
export TOKLIGENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
export TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
```

Or edit the config file directly:

```bash
tgw config set openai_api_key sk-...
tgw config set anthropic_api_key sk-ant-...
```

### 3. Start the Gateway

```bash
# Start in daemon mode
tgw start --daemon

# Check status
tgw status

# View logs
tgw logs -f
```

The gateway starts on `http://localhost:8081` by default.

### 4. Use with Your LLM Clients

#### OpenAI SDK → Anthropic Claude

```python
from openai import OpenAI

# Point to Tokligence Gateway
client = OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8081/v1",
    api_key="any-key"  # Gateway handles the actual API keys
)

# Use Claude models with OpenAI SDK!
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
)
```

#### Anthropic SDK → OpenAI GPT

```python
from anthropic import Anthropic

# Point to Tokligence Gateway
client = Anthropic(
    base_url="http://localhost:8081/anthropic",
    api_key="any-key"
)

# Use GPT models with Anthropic SDK!
response = client.messages.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    max_tokens=1024,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
)
```

## CLI Commands

### Gateway Management

```bash
# Initialize configuration
tgw init

# Start the gateway
tgw start [--port 8081] [--daemon]

# Stop the gateway
tgw stop

# Check status
tgw status

# View logs
tgw logs [-f] [-n 50]
```

### Configuration Management

```bash
# List all configuration
tgw config list

# Get a specific value
tgw config get openai_api_key

# Set a value
tgw config set port 3000
```

### AI Assistant

Get interactive help with an AI assistant:

```bash
tgw chat
```

The assistant automatically detects available LLM providers:
1. **Local LLMs** (free): Ollama, vLLM, LM Studio
2. **Commercial APIs**: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini
3. **Running Gateway** (if available)

The chat assistant can:
- Answer questions about Tokligence Gateway
- Help configure API keys and settings
- Execute configuration commands via function calling
- Provide troubleshooting guidance

## Real-World Use Cases

### 1. Use Claude with Codex CLI

[Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex-cli) only supports OpenAI API. Use Tokligence Gateway to access Claude models:

```bash
# Start gateway
tgw start --daemon

# Configure Codex to use gateway
export OPENAI_API_BASE=http://localhost:8081/v1

# Use Claude models with Codex!
codex --model claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929 "Write a Python function"
```

### 2. Use GPT with Claude Code

[Claude Code](https://claude.ai/download) only supports Anthropic API. Use Tokligence Gateway to access GPT models:

```bash
# Start gateway
tgw start --daemon

# Point Claude Code to gateway
# In Claude Code settings, set:
# Base URL: http://localhost:8081/anthropic

# Now you can use GPT models in Claude Code!
```

### 3. Multi-Provider Cost Optimization

Route requests to the most cost-effective provider:

```bash
# Configure routing in ~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini
# Route expensive tasks to cheaper models
model_provider_routes=gpt-4→claude-sonnet,gpt-3.5→claude-haiku
```

### 4. Privacy and Self-Hosting

Keep sensitive data on your infrastructure:

```bash
# Use with local LLMs via Ollama
export TOKLIGENCE_LLM_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:11434/v1
tgw start --daemon

# All requests stay local!
```

## Programmatic Usage (Node.js)

While primarily a CLI tool, you can also use it programmatically:

```javascript
const { Gateway } = require('@tokligence/gateway');

async function main() {
  const gateway = new Gateway({
    port: 8081,
    daemon: true
  });

  // Start the gateway
  await gateway.start();
  console.log('Gateway started!');

  // Check status
  const status = await gateway.status();
  console.log('Status:', status);

  // Stop the gateway (when done)
  // await gateway.stop();
}

main().catch(console.error);
```

## Platform Support

This package automatically downloads the appropriate binary for your platform:

- **macOS**: Intel (x64) and Apple Silicon (arm64)
- **Linux**: x64 and ARM64
- **Windows**: x64

Binaries are downloaded from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/releases) during installation.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
TOKLIGENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com

# LLM Provider API Keys
TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
TOKLIGENCE_GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIza...

# Optional: Custom OpenAI-compatible endpoint
TOKLIGENCE_LLM_ENDPOINT=http://your-llm.com/v1
TOKLIGENCE_LLM_API_KEY=optional-key

# Chat assistant configuration
TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...      # For chat assistant
TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-... # For chat assistant
```

### Configuration Files

After running `tgw init`, configuration is stored in:

- `~/.tokligence/config/settings.ini` - Environment settings
- `~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini` - Gateway configuration

Edit these files directly or use `tgw config set <key> <value>`.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Your Application                             │
│  (OpenAI SDK, Anthropic SDK, Codex CLI, Claude Code)           │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
                         ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Tokligence Gateway (Port 8081)                  │
│                                                                   │
│  ┌──────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐                  │
│  │  OpenAI API      │    │  Anthropic API   │                  │
│  │  /v1/chat/...    │◄──►│  /v1/messages    │                  │
│  └────────┬─────────┘    └─────────┬────────┘                  │
│           │                         │                            │
│           └────────┬───────────────┘                            │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Protocol        │                                  │
│           │  Translator      │                                  │
│           │  (Bidirectional) │                                  │
│           └────────┬─────────┘                                  │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Model Router    │                                  │
│           │  & Load Balancer │                                  │
│           └────────┬─────────┘                                  │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Token Ledger    │                                  │
│           │  & Accounting    │                                  │
│           └──────────────────┘                                  │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
         ┌───────────────┼───────────────┐
         ▼               ▼               ▼
    ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌─────────┐
    │ OpenAI  │    │ Anthropic│    │ Google  │
    │   API   │    │   API    │    │   AI    │
    └─────────┘    └──────────┘    └─────────┘
```

## Advanced Features

### Work Modes

Configure how the gateway handles requests:

```bash
# Auto mode (default): Smart routing based on model
tgw config set work_mode auto

# Passthrough: Direct delegation to provider
tgw config set work_mode passthrough

# Translation: Force protocol translation
tgw config set work_mode translation
```

### Model Routing

Route specific models to specific providers:

```ini
# In ~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini
model_provider_routes=gpt*→openai,claude*→anthropic
```

### Token Accounting

View token usage:

```bash
# Check ledger database
sqlite3 ~/.tokligence/ledger.db "SELECT * FROM usage_log LIMIT 10;"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Binary Download Issues

If automatic binary download fails:

1. Check your internet connection
2. Verify GitHub is accessible
3. Manually download from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/releases)
4. Place binaries in `node_modules/@tokligence/gateway/.bin/`

### Gateway Won't Start

```bash
# Check if port is in use
lsof -i :8081

# Check logs
tgw logs -n 100

# Verify configuration
tgw config list
```

### Protocol Translation Issues

```bash
# Enable debug logging
tgw config set log_level debug

# Check translation logs
tgw logs -f | grep translation
```

## Development

### Building from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm.git
cd tokligence-gateway-npm
npm install
npm link
```

### Running Tests

```bash
npm test
```

## Documentation

- **Main Repository**: [tokligence/tokligence-gateway](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway)
- **Quick Start Guide**: [docs/QUICK_START.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/QUICK_START.md)
- **Codex Integration**: [docs/codex-to-anthropic.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/codex-to-anthropic.md)
- **Claude Code Integration**: [docs/claude_code-to-openai.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/claude_code-to-openai.md)
- **Features Documentation**: [docs/features.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/features.md)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Links

- **NPM Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tokligence/gateway
- **Main Repository**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway
- **NPM Wrapper Repository**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm
- **Issues**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/issues
- **Website**: https://tokligence.ai

## Support

For issues and questions:
- NPM package issues: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/issues)
- Gateway core issues: [Main Repo Issues](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/issues)

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Tokligence team**

Commit message:

docs: sync configuration guide into npm knowledge base

README.md, after:

# @tokligence/gateway

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@tokligence%2Fgateway.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tokligence/gateway)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Sync Release](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/actions/workflows/sync-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/actions/workflows/sync-release.yml)

**NPM installation for [Tokligence Gateway](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway)** - The first open-source AI gateway with two-way token trading.

> **TL;DR**: Tokligence Gateway is a high-performance LLM gateway that provides unified access to multiple LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google AI) with full bidirectional protocol translation. This NPM package automatically downloads and manages the native Go binaries for your platform.

## What is Tokligence Gateway?

Tokligence Gateway is a **platform-independent LLM gateway** that provides **dual native API support** - both OpenAI and Anthropic protocols - with full bidirectional translation. Unlike simple proxies, it offers:

### Core Capabilities

- **🔄 Bidirectional Protocol Translation**: OpenAI ↔ Anthropic with zero adapter overhead
  - Use Claude models with OpenAI SDK (Codex CLI, LangChain)
  - Use GPT models with Anthropic SDK (Claude Code)

- **🤖 Multiple LLM Providers**: Unified interface for:
  - OpenAI (GPT-4, GPT-3.5)
  - Anthropic (Claude Sonnet 4.5, Opus, Haiku)
  - Google AI (Gemini 2.5)
  - Custom OpenAI-compatible endpoints

- **💰 Token Trading Marketplace** (upcoming):
  - Buy tokens to meet AI needs
  - Sell unused LLM token capacity
  - Democratized AI infrastructure

- **📊 Built-in Token Ledger**: Track usage, audit trails, cost optimization

- **🛡️ Production Ready**: Rate limiting, logging, monitoring, failover

### Why Choose Tokligence Gateway?

| Feature | Tokligence Gateway | LiteLLM | OpenRouter | Cloudflare AI Gateway |
|---------|-------------------|---------|------------|----------------------|
| **Bidirectional Translation** | OpenAI ↔ Anthropic | OpenAI-style only | OpenAI-style only | OpenAI-style only |
| **Native Protocols** | Dual native APIs | Single proxy | Single endpoint | Normalizes to OpenAI |
| **Client Compatibility** | OpenAI SDK + Anthropic SDK | OpenAI SDK | OpenAI SDK | OpenAI SDK |
| **Token Marketplace** | ✅ Two-way trading | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Deployment** | Self-hosted (Docker, npm, pip, binary) | Self-hosted Python | Managed SaaS | Cloudflare platform |
| **Performance** | Go binary, low overhead | Python runtime | Network hop | Edge optimized |
| **Open Source** | Apache-2.0 | MIT | Closed | Closed |

## Installation

### Global Installation (Recommended)

Install the CLI globally for easy access:

```bash
npm install -g @tokligence/gateway
```

After installation, you can use the `tokligence` command (or `tgw` as a shorthand):

```bash
tgw --version
```

### Local Installation

Install as a project dependency:

```bash
npm install @tokligence/gateway
# or
yarn add @tokligence/gateway
# or
pnpm add @tokligence/gateway
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Configuration

```bash
tgw init
```

This creates `~/.tokligence/config/settings.ini` with default configuration.

### 2. Configure API Keys

Set your LLM provider API keys:

```bash
export TOKLIGENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
export TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
```

Or edit the config file directly:

```bash
tgw config set openai_api_key sk-...
tgw config set anthropic_api_key sk-ant-...
```

### 3. Start the Gateway

```bash
# Start in daemon mode
tgw start --daemon

# Check status
tgw status

# View logs
tgw logs -f
```

The gateway starts on `http://localhost:8081` by default.

### 4. Use with Your LLM Clients

#### OpenAI SDK → Anthropic Claude

```python
from openai import OpenAI

# Point to Tokligence Gateway
client = OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8081/v1",
    api_key="any-key"  # Gateway handles the actual API keys
)

# Use Claude models with OpenAI SDK!
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
)
```

#### Anthropic SDK → OpenAI GPT

```python
from anthropic import Anthropic

# Point to Tokligence Gateway
client = Anthropic(
    base_url="http://localhost:8081/anthropic",
    api_key="any-key"
)

# Use GPT models with Anthropic SDK!
response = client.messages.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    max_tokens=1024,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
)
```

## CLI Commands

### Gateway Management

```bash
# Initialize configuration
tgw init

# Start the gateway
tgw start [--port 8081] [--daemon]

# Stop the gateway
tgw stop

# Check status
tgw status

# View logs
tgw logs [-f] [-n 50]
```

### Configuration Management

```bash
# List all configuration
tgw config list

# Get a specific value
tgw config get openai_api_key

# Set a value
tgw config set port 3000
```

### AI Assistant

Get interactive help with an AI assistant:

```bash
tgw chat
```

The assistant automatically detects available LLM providers:
1. **Local LLMs** (free): Ollama, vLLM, LM Studio
2. **Commercial APIs**: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini
3. **Running Gateway** (if available)

The chat assistant can:
- Answer questions about Tokligence Gateway
- Help configure API keys and settings
- Execute configuration commands via function calling
- Provide troubleshooting guidance

Example `tgw chat` session (interactive configuration assistant):

![Tokligence Gateway CLI Chat](data/images/tgw_chat_config_example.png)

The assistant keeps API keys/tokens/secrets local (only masked summaries are sent to LLM providers) and guides you with concrete commands such as:

```bash
export TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
tgw config set work_mode translation
```

## Real-World Use Cases

### 1. Use Claude with Codex CLI

[Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex-cli) only supports OpenAI API. Use Tokligence Gateway to access Claude models:

```bash
# Start gateway
tgw start --daemon

# Configure Codex to use gateway
export OPENAI_API_BASE=http://localhost:8081/v1

# Use Claude models with Codex!
codex --model claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929 "Write a Python function"
```

### 2. Use GPT with Claude Code

[Claude Code](https://claude.ai/download) only supports Anthropic API. Use Tokligence Gateway to access GPT models:

```bash
# Start gateway
tgw start --daemon

# Point Claude Code to gateway
# In Claude Code settings, set:
# Base URL: http://localhost:8081/anthropic

# Now you can use GPT models in Claude Code!
```

### 3. Multi-Provider Cost Optimization

Route requests to the most cost-effective provider:

```bash
# Configure routing in ~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini
# Route expensive tasks to cheaper models
model_provider_routes=gpt-4→claude-sonnet,gpt-3.5→claude-haiku
```

### 4. Privacy and Self-Hosting

Keep sensitive data on your infrastructure:

```bash
# Use with local LLMs via Ollama
export TOKLIGENCE_LLM_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:11434/v1
tgw start --daemon

# All requests stay local!
```

## Programmatic Usage (Node.js)

While primarily a CLI tool, you can also use it programmatically:

```javascript
const { Gateway } = require('@tokligence/gateway');

async function main() {
  const gateway = new Gateway({
    port: 8081,
    daemon: true
  });

  // Start the gateway
  await gateway.start();
  console.log('Gateway started!');

  // Check status
  const status = await gateway.status();
  console.log('Status:', status);

  // Stop the gateway (when done)
  // await gateway.stop();
}

main().catch(console.error);
```

## Platform Support

This package automatically downloads the appropriate binary for your platform:

- **macOS**: Intel (x64) and Apple Silicon (arm64)
- **Linux**: x64 and ARM64
- **Windows**: x64

Binaries are downloaded from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/releases) during installation.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
TOKLIGENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com

# LLM Provider API Keys
TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
TOKLIGENCE_GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIza...

# Optional: Custom OpenAI-compatible endpoint
TOKLIGENCE_LLM_ENDPOINT=http://your-llm.com/v1
TOKLIGENCE_LLM_API_KEY=optional-key

# Chat assistant configuration
TOKLIGENCE_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...      # For chat assistant
TOKLIGENCE_ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-... # For chat assistant
```

### Configuration Files

After running `tgw init`, configuration is stored in:

- `~/.tokligence/config/settings.ini` - Environment settings
- `~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini` - Gateway configuration

Edit these files directly or use `tgw config set <key> <value>`.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Your Application                             │
│  (OpenAI SDK, Anthropic SDK, Codex CLI, Claude Code)           │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
                         ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Tokligence Gateway (Port 8081)                  │
│                                                                   │
│  ┌──────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐                  │
│  │  OpenAI API      │    │  Anthropic API   │                  │
│  │  /v1/chat/...    │◄──►│  /v1/messages    │                  │
│  └────────┬─────────┘    └─────────┬────────┘                  │
│           │                         │                            │
│           └────────┬───────────────┘                            │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Protocol        │                                  │
│           │  Translator      │                                  │
│           │  (Bidirectional) │                                  │
│           └────────┬─────────┘                                  │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Model Router    │                                  │
│           │  & Load Balancer │                                  │
│           └────────┬─────────┘                                  │
│                    │                                             │
│           ┌────────▼─────────┐                                  │
│           │  Token Ledger    │                                  │
│           │  & Accounting    │                                  │
│           └──────────────────┘                                  │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │
         ┌───────────────┼───────────────┐
         ▼               ▼               ▼
    ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌─────────┐
    │ OpenAI  │    │ Anthropic│    │ Google  │
    │   API   │    │   API    │    │   AI    │
    └─────────┘    └──────────┘    └─────────┘
```

## Advanced Features

### Work Modes

Configure how the gateway handles requests:

```bash
# Auto mode (default): Smart routing based on model
tgw config set work_mode auto

# Passthrough: Direct delegation to provider
tgw config set work_mode passthrough

# Translation: Force protocol translation
tgw config set work_mode translation
```

### Model Routing

Route specific models to specific providers:

```ini
# In ~/.tokligence/config/dev/gateway.ini
model_provider_routes=gpt*→openai,claude*→anthropic
```

### Token Accounting

View token usage:

```bash
# Check ledger database
sqlite3 ~/.tokligence/ledger.db "SELECT * FROM usage_log LIMIT 10;"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Binary Download Issues

If automatic binary download fails:

1. Check your internet connection
2. Verify GitHub is accessible
3. Manually download from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/releases)
4. Place binaries in `node_modules/@tokligence/gateway/.bin/`

### Gateway Won't Start

```bash
# Check if port is in use
lsof -i :8081

# Check logs
tgw logs -n 100

# Verify configuration
tgw config list
```

### Protocol Translation Issues

```bash
# Enable debug logging
tgw config set log_level debug

# Check translation logs
tgw logs -f | grep translation
```

## Development

### Building from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm.git
cd tokligence-gateway-npm
npm install
npm link
```

### Running Tests

```bash
npm test
```

## Documentation

- **Main Repository**: [tokligence/tokligence-gateway](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway)
- **Quick Start Guide**: [docs/QUICK_START.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/QUICK_START.md)
- **Codex Integration**: [docs/codex-to-anthropic.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/codex-to-anthropic.md)
- **Claude Code Integration**: [docs/claude_code-to-openai.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/claude_code-to-openai.md)
- **Features Documentation**: [docs/features.md](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/blob/main/docs/features.md)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Links

- **NPM Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tokligence/gateway
- **Main Repository**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway
- **NPM Wrapper Repository**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm
- **Issues**: https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/issues
- **Website**: https://tokligence.ai

## Support

For issues and questions:
- NPM package issues: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway-npm/issues)
- Gateway core issues: [Main Repo Issues](https://github.com/tokligence/tokligence-gateway/issues)

---

**Built with ❤️ by the Tokligence team**
